C/2014 Q2 (Lovejoy) - A Short Story
###################################

:date: 2015-01-12 21:58
:tags: writing
:category: short-story
:slug: comet-lovejoy-short-story
:author: Javed Khan
:summary: A short story based on Comet Lovejoy

.. figure:: |filename|/images/c2014q2-lovejoy.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Comet Lovejoy C2/014 Q2
   :target: |filename|/images/c2014q2-lovejoy.png

.. epigraph::

    Comet Lovejoy C/2014 Q2 is one of the latest discoveries by amateur astronomer
    Terry Lovejoy. It is a stark reminder of how little we know about the universe
    we inhabit and how any one of us can make a difference in expanding our
    collective knowledge, if we decide to make a dedicated effort. Here's a short
    sci-fi story to commemorate this tiny blip in the space, which will only happen
    again after 8000 years:

The year is 2148 and humanity has made huge advances in the areas of autonomous
space mining and exploration. Hermes, officially CP-142,  is a comet probe
tasked with exploring the Local Group, a closely bound collection of around 50
galaxies.  The latest comet assigned to Hermes is Comet Lovejoy C/2014 Q2 named
after it's discoverer Terry Lovejoy.  A preliminary report on the comet has
indicated huge reserves of Manganese, Palladium, Rhodium which would be quite
profitable to mine in their own right.  But Hermes has a more important duty to
perform than just mining the comet.  It has to retrieve the Briefcase.

A few years ago the news of seemingly intelligent radio signals received from
Comet Lovejoy had created a huge buzz among the United Space Agency and a few
hobbyist astronomy forums. But the information quickly disappeared from the
news and  it was dismissed as a false alarm. A quick decision was taken by the
government to keep further information classified until the comet was explored
and the mystery was resolved. A few images taken by the space telescope G-32
had hinted at a possibility of a rectangular object, positioned in one of the
comet's valleys, anchored to the surface using harpoons on the four corners. An
engraving of luminous radium, serving as a beacon, parallel to one of the sides
made the object look like a briefcase of comically large size. The few people
who had access to the knowledge about the radio signals and the Briefcase were
ecstatic at the discovery and they worked day and night on every bit of
information available.

Hermes performed the retrieval manoeuvre, which involved unhinging the
harpoons, latching onto the object and anchoring it to the spacecraft
successfully. While most of the operations were autonomously intuitive to
Hermes, multiple simulations were conducted by the ground staff to make sure
there were no errors. The scientists at United Space Agency immediately started
experimenting on the object by collecting samples and sending instructions to
general purpose robot aboard the spacecraft. A C-14 instruction on the
collected sample dated the object back to at least 4 billion years ago. The
scientists had the first proof that the object was not a part of the comet but
was indeed put in place by an intelligent entity. Soon, this knowledge
terrified them.  What intelligent entity was alive 4 billion years ago, a time
when the earth was merely 500 million years old? And what messages and
mysteries did *they* enclose in the Briefcase?

As soon as the spacecraft landed, the object was retrieved and excavated as per
the findings of an X-Ray report. The inside of the Briefcase seemed
thoughtfully and meticulously packed. The primary compartment consisted of five
metallic cylindrical containers, each sealed at the top. In addition, there was
a pile of laser-etched thin graphene sheets, stacked for efficient storage.
Towards the bottom, there were square metallic containers. There was an
atmosphere of awe and frenzy as the scientists, mathematicians and astronomers
tried to make sense of all the information, the first of its kind in the
history of mankind.

After months of careful analysis the researchers finally had an answer. The
graphene sheets contained a mapping of *their* words and a visual
representation of the objects. Starting from geometrical shapes, the mappings
progressed until concepts such as "planet", "life" and "seed" could be
translated. It was concluded that the cylindrical containers were a cold
storage of *their* genetic material. The metallic containers seemed to contain
quantum storage of terabytes of information archives, waiting to be deciphered.
Using the graphene sheets as their Rosetta Stone, the researchers soon decoded
all the archives, the first among them being a message from *them*:

"Greetings, dear reader. It seems that our panspermia missions have succeeded..."
