Metaphysics
###########

:date: 2015-07-19 22:40
:tags: metaphysics, philosophy
:category: philosophy
:slug: metaphysics
:author: Javed Khan
:summary: Metaphysics, Bitcoin and Will

.. figure:: |filename|/images/circle-limit.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Circle Limit - M C Escher
   :target: |filename|/images/circle-limit.jpg

.. epigraph::

    The highest art is that which awakens our dormant will-force, and helps us
    to face the trials of life manfully

    -- Iqbal

Metaphysics:
============


The Theory of Everything (if there's one to be found), crumples under it's own
weight when GÃ¶del's `Incompleteness`_ theorem is applied. This means that we
need to live with the possibility of never really being able to understand the
root cause of phenomenon, even with the best scientific methods.

On a similar note, going by Kant's concepts of Transcendental Idealism, one
must accept that phenomenon is just a glimpse of `Noumenon`_ filtered by the
human senses and therefore there is no way of getting in touch with the
behind-the-scenes puppet masters anyway.

Keeping both points in mind, we are left with no hope of understanding at all,
a certain case for Nihilism. However, if we indulge in Metaphysics a bit we
might still be able to salvage a workaround. Now, instead of trying to
understand everything, we can just accept that things are a certain way. The
transformation between things can be attributed to a driving force, which we
might call 'The Will' (the summation of all wills). A seed contains a will to
blossom into a rose flower.  Of course, it also contains a million different
ingredients which Science has discovered. But in this new frame, all those
ingredients have 'wills' to aid in the blossoming of the rose. We can choose to
zoom in on as much detail as we want but the basics remain the same.

Now, as humans, we too have a will and a course charted out to us by our animal
instincts. However, we have the unique ability to choose how to apply our will.
From a larger perspective, by evolving into humanity, every human piece of The
Will has gained the freedom to choose and explore; it has leveled up, so to
speak. By extrapolation, one can guess that the direction of every will is to
be more free, more powerful and to unite with other wills until it ultimately
becomes The Will. There are multiple contenders for this spot, so the
competition is fierce. The race is to influence as many others as possible to
join your team while beating your opponents. [#f1]_

What happens after the grand unification into The Will? Well, maybe The Will
decides to split up and re-start this whole process over again. Or maybe it
decides to have a cup of tea at The Restaurant at the End of the Universe. It
is 'free' to do anything it wants, after all.

In the meantime, by choosing a worthy Goal and applying our will, we can
discover the potential we have to self-actualize.


.. _Incompleteness: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_everything#G.C3.B6del.27s_incompleteness_theorem
.. _Noumenon: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noumenon

.. [#f1] A conceptually similar model is the blockchain in Bitcoin. Only the longest chain is considered valid.
